Dear Julian,

I would like to remind your client that there is a Child Arrangements Order in place where it clearly stipulates:

"....with the father being responsible for collecting Daisy from school at the start of contact and the father dropping Daisy at the mother's address at the end of contact."

For your client to propose that I wait in my car while she and her father collect Daisy from school, and then deliver her to my car, is in clear breach of the CAO. Furthermore, it is a further example of your client's controlling and coercive behaviour. Given the need for a CAO to actually allow Daisy to spend time with me in the first instance, your client's recent efforts to covertly track Daisy while she is in my care, and now the suggestion that your client will collect Daisy from school despite it being my responsibilty, only exemplifies your client's damaging behaviour. This continued intrusion and surveillance is an extension of the abusive controlling behaviour evident in the use of the tracker device. 

I also take offence at your client's continued use of the phrase "....the usual and accepted practice of collection arrangements." At what point was I ever asked if their definition of "collection arrangements" was acceptable to me? Have I ever had any other choice in choosing whether they are present at school on a Friday afternoon? Of course, the answer is a resounding "No".

As I have now requested numerous times in the past, and will reiterate again, your client and her family should not be present when I arrive to collect Daisy from school on a Friday afternoon. The whole point of the CAO is to provide a means for Daisy to spend time with me without interruption from your client; for your client to persist with being present at the school only perpetutes the potential for conflict.

I too am concerned with the effect that any conflict has on Daisy and the solution really is very simple. All that is required is for your client to follow the CAO and allow me to collect Daisy from school unhindered and without your client or family being present. Needless to say, I will be attending Daisy's school tomorrow afternoon as per the CAO to collect her from her teacher, and I do not expect to see your client, her father, or be hindered or pestered in any way.

I would ask your client to consider how she might feel if, on any given day when she is responsible for collecting Daisy from school, I were to follow her pattern of behaviour: standing in the playground at a distance watching, joining your client and Daisy uninvited and trailing them to their property, taking Daisy away from her, and leaning into her property to deposit unwanted items. Without question, this would be wholly inappropriate. I would never pester, harrass or intrude in such a way and expect reciprocal respect for the time Daisy and I spend together.

Finally, I note that your client has made no mention of considering mediation in an effort to resolve this situation. I once again, for Daisy's sake, hope that you may be able to convince your client otherwise.

Regards,

Graeme Johnston





Dear Mr Johnston,

I write as my client is extremely concerned with your worsening behaviour on Friday 6 May 2022 especially after I had already conveyed her hope that this would end for Daisy’s sake.

Disappointingly, I understand from my client that the usual and accepted practice of collection arrangements were not followed once again and it was in essence Daisy, her 74-year-old father and herself who all had to bear the brunt of your harassing, intimidating, angry, abusive and threatening behaviour. A passer-by stopped to help my client and her family and it was only then that you retreated from your position after having blocked my client father’s path and squared up physically against him which Daisy herself witnessed. My client disputes your version of events that afternoon as well as other content of your email of 8 May 2022 and I reserve her right to comment further on your letter if the need should arise.

However, my client informs me that she has always walked to your car to see Daisy off both prior to and after any CAO in place and whether your contact has started at 9am on a Saturday or after School on a Friday given her very close proximity to the School and for more than the last three years my client has been joined by her father when doing so.

You state in your 22 April email that, “However, after this latest event, I no longer accept that this is best due to the increased likelihood of conflict instigated by your client in front of Daisy”, and thereby confirm your prior acceptance of this current practice of collection arrangements as being best for Daisy. My client holds the view that these collection arrangements are still best for Daisy and even more so now given the recent conflict instigated by yourself on both 22 April and 6 May directly in front of Daisy with your sudden refusal to carry them out after my email of 22 April requesting the safe return of my client and Daisy’s belongings. There really is no justification for altering Daisy’s current arrangements as a result of what you have referred to as “this latest event”.

Your Court application was dismissed on 8 April 2022 and my client had included two apologies in her statement of 7 April 2022 as well as the fact that she wanted the tracker to be returned to her, but you still went ahead and destroyed and disposed of my client and Daisy’s belongings. Your Counsel also wrote on 8 April 2022 that, “We only want to limit mum tracking Daisy when she is in her dad’s care.” Yet, you have gone directly against this by destroying my client’s property. You wrote on 22 April that you took “this course of action due to the awful memories now associated with these objects”, but yet you then chose to return to my client on 24 April two key rings of Daisy’s that were attached to the outside of the very same bag only to serve as a constant reminder to Daisy that her bag, a treasured gift to her from my client’s family, has been permanently disposed of by her father.

Your recent unacceptable behaviour has really unsettled Daisy and is causing her a great deal of distress especially as Daisy herself has confirmed to my client that she still wants my client, her grandfather as well as her puppy, Rocky, to be able to see her off in the usual way. This is also something that my client wishes to continue as does Daisy’s grandfather who, as you know, is already on borrowed time. In an attempt to resolve the situation, my client has asked Daisy for her input as she unfortunately had to witness the events of both 22 April and 6 May first hand. Daisy very sensibly suggested that her dad stays in his parked car whilst my client and her grandfather together with her puppy, Rocky, collect her from School and then walk to your car where Daisy can be seen off in the usual way. Daisy was also happy for my client to share this with you. This really does sound like a very sensible solution for you to consider if you really are unable to move on from the “latest event”.

In the meantime, my client and her father will be continuing with the usual and accepted practice of collection arrangements.

Yours sincerely,

JULIAN BEARD

 